September 17, 2021
As a dog owner, it’s important it is to have the right stuff! While preparing to welcome your dog into your family, you may have spent some time researching and stocking up on the best dog products you could find -- that, and asking all the dog owners you know what you might need. Thankfully, we’ve got a lot of dog lovers and owners at Ready Pet Go! We decided to curate our list of “must haves” and share with you! 

The countdown, please:

11. Stuffable Dog Toys for Your Freezer
There’s little a dog likes more than a frozen toy stuffed with yummy treats. Some dogs might love bananas, which, luckily, are easy to slice up and stuff. It’s a good idea to have a fleet of toys like Kongs and other plastic toys that can be stuffed with treats and kept in your freezer -- that way, you’ll always be prepared to make crate time fun! Some dog owners swear by Chew King filler toys, which might be a great addition to your arsenal. When you’re shopping for a new stuffable toy, make sure there is a hole in each end for safety purposes.

10. Add Yummy Chews to Your Routine
Supplements can help support your dog’s diet by giving your precious pooch nutrients that might not be present in kibble. Plus, they’re fun to give! Probiotic chews are a great treat for pups with a sensitive stomach. Ready Pet Go offers chews for dogs at all stages of life that can help support their digestion, joints, coat, skin and more! Best of all, you can subscribe for regular delivery, so you never run out.

9. Welcome a Forced Air Dryer Into Your Grooming Regimen
If your pup is a fluffy butt, a forced air dryer should be among the top of your list of necessities. They can blast air through a thick coat and make what can be hours of coat care much shorter. Forced air dryers are good for dogs of all coat types since they make drying effortless and will also remove loose hair to make shedding a faster process. They’re generally quieter than hair dryers for people, making them easier for your dog to tolerate.

8. Make Mealtime Fun with Snuffle Mats
Snuffle mats have become super popular among the pooch demographic. You can scatter kibble in a snuffle mat to allow your dog to search for food and prolong your pooch’s favorite time of day. This one is a Ready Pet Go! fan favorite!

7. Slow Down Dinner Time with a Slow Bowl
Like snuffle mats, slow bowls can prevent bloat and help prolong meal time. They also provide your pooch with enrichment. If your pup is an eager eater and likes to quickly inhale every morsel, a slow bowl might be essential from the start.

6. Protect Precious Paws with Paw Wax
Paw wax helps keep paws soft and safe from the elements. When you go on a walk, applying paw wax to your dog’s paw pads can help prevent damage from the cold, heat, and terrain. Musher’s Secret paw wax is a popular favorite to help keep pupper paws safe outside.

5. Protect Your House with a Grrreat Odor Eliminator and Carpet Cleaner
Without Chris Christensen Gotcha! Odor Exploder, your house may not be survive housebreaking! There are lots of great carpet cleaners and dog colognes on the market, but this is one you can add to the laundry and spray it directly on your dog.

4. Keep Nails Snazzy with a Dremel
Nail trimming can be stressful for both dogs and owners. Most dogs just don’t like it, and for owners, there’s the horrible fear of hitting the kwik. Investing in a dremel can help ease nail trimming woes by grinding the nail down safely.

3. Reinforce Training with a Clicker
Using a clicker makes training time with your pup more successful and faster. Clickers add positive reinforcement by providing an audible cue. Whether you’re working on heel training or more advanced tricks like rolling over or sitting pretty, a clicker is essential to letting your dog know when he or she is doing it properly.

2. Keep Breath Fresh and Teeth Healthy with a Doggy Toothbrush
Brushing your dog’s teeth daily can help keep them healthy and prevent dreaded Death Breath. Brushing your dog’s teeth and massaging gums will help your pup keep those choppers healthy and strong their whole life and may avoid the need for expensive professional cleanings.

1. Keep Cozy with a Washable Crate Mat
If you crate train your pup, when it’s time for bed, set up a crate mat for comfort and give a favorite chew or a toy stuffed with a favorite treat. When you’re looking for something cozy to give your dog for the night, make sure it’s machine washable so that you can keep your dog’s favorite comfortable spot clean and stink-free.

So, add a few (or all) of these items to help keep your favorite pup happy, healthy, and safe!
