September 8, 2021

Rainy days can leave you and your dog stuck indoors, but if you two choose to brave the elements for a good walk, make sure you’re both prepared to face the storm.

It’s important to remember that while rain is one thing, lightning is another. If there’s thunder and lightning outside, keep you and your dog inside. If your pup tends to get anxious during storms, try Zen Chews calming treats for dogs and stay inside for at least 30 minutes after you’ve heard the last clap of thunder.
You can also keep your dog prepared to face every day by supplementing with Ready Pet Go’s yummy chicken, bacon, and cheese-flavored Multivitamin Chews. These chews are packed with vitamins chosen to help your dog’s hips, joints, skin, coat, digestion, kidney, and bladder. All of these will help perk your dog up on a walk, any day.

1. RAINCOATS FOR ALL
Before you head out in a storm, make sure your dog’s coat is protected by a raincoat. Staying out in the rain can damage your dog’s coat and lead to hours of grooming. Poodle owners will know this firsthand! Purchasing a raincoat for your dog can help you cut down on post-walk grooming and protect your dog’s coat from damage. You can find raincoats for dogs at your local pet shop, and it’s a good idea to take your dog with you on your trip to check them out to make sure that your choice fits, and that you are both happy with the purchase.
Also, consider forgoing the umbrella and wearing a raincoat or poncho for yourself. Holding an umbrella and a leash at the same time can be cumbersome and increase the likelihood that you’ll both be in trouble if you slip. Leaving a hand free helps make sure you and your dog will stay safe!

2. PROTECT PAWS
You can protect your dog’s paws from mud and any damage that could be caused by rain, snow, or ice in colder weather, by considering some doggie booties or paw wax. Booties are great because they protect your dog’s paws from mud entirely, so when you get home, you won’t have to wash the mud off. However, not all dogs will wear booties, and it’s important to get them used to wearing booties gradually.
Paw wax is another good way to help protect your dog’s paws from the elements. This special wax adds a protective layer to your dog’s paw, protecting them from things like heat, ice, and anything else they may come into contact with on their walk.

3. REFLECT SAFETY
Rain can reduce visibility, making it difficult to see you and your dog, especially if your dog is a darker color or wearing darker-colored rain gear. You can keep both of you safe by using reflective gear, such as a reflective collar and leash. Some raincoats and vests will also include reflective material. This can make it easier for others to spot -- and avoid -- you and your dog on your rainy walk.

4. BE PREPARED FOR MUD
If your dog won’t wear booties or decides to romp through a mud puddle, it’s a good idea to be prepared to clean them off. You might want to consider having a makeshift cleaning station at the front door for a quick wipe-down before going inside. You could also keep a dry towel near the door to absorb the excess water or even prepare a shallow paw-washing station (think litter box) for your pup’s paws to step in to rinse the mud off before you go inside.
  
5. SET UP FOR WASHING AND DRYING
When you get home, be ready to get your dog clean and dry. Have your bathtub ready to give your dog a quick bath, clean towels, and a blow dryer ready to dry off. If your dog has a thick coat, consider a forced air dryer. Forced air dryers can dry your dog fast and help with shedding by blowing out any loose hair. Keeping your dog’s coat washed and dried can help prevent illness and keep a rainy day from causing damage to your dog’s coat.
A rainy day doesn’t have to mean you and your dog are stuck inside! Just make sure that you’re both prepared to have a safe, fun time with your rain gear and that you’re ready to clean up from your adventure when you get back.
