October 12, 2021

Keeping your dog’s coat shiny doesn’t just keep your pooch looking perfect, it’s a great sign of overall good health. If you notice your best friend’s coat is looking dull, it’s a good idea to take action fast. Luckily, there are a number of things you can do to take your dog’s coat from drab to fab.

1. SUPPLEMENT WITH OMEGA 3 AND FATTY ACIDS
Giving your pet some extra nutrients is one of the best things you can do for coat care. Omega 3 and fatty acids are perfect for giving your pup’s coat some extra shine. Ready Pet Go offers delicious fish oil and cheese-flavored Omega Health Chews that can help improve skin and coat health with essential Omega fatty acids.

2. TRY MORE VITAMINS
Vitamin E, Zinc, Vitamin A, and fish oil are all other great choices for vitamins that can help bring shine to your dog’s coat. Adding fish oil to your dog’s food is a popular and tried and true way to improve coat health.

3. MAKE SURE YOU’RE FEEDING A BALANCED DIET
Check your dog food label to make sure you are feeding a well-balanced diet that is high in protein and avoids filler ingredients like corn, soy, and artificial flavors. A protein-rich food is good for skin and coat care, especially if the food is fortified with nutrients that promote coat health, such as Omega fatty acids. Some dog food brands also have special formulas designed to promote coat and skin health.

4. KEEP UP WITH YOUR GROOMING ROUTINE
One of the most essential things you can do for your dog’s coat is to just keep up with coat maintenance, like brushing and combing daily. Pay attention to your dog’s coat and skin as you groom, checking for any signs of skin issues or parasites that may be contributing to the dullness in your dog’s coat.

  
5. BATHE YOUR BESTIE REGULARLY
Being diligent about bathing is another great way to improve coat health and shine. Bathing too frequently can also cause skin problems but sticking to a routine and making sure that your pooch’s shampoo is designed to promote shine and coat health will help improve it quickly. (One great way is to look for shampoos that contain oatmeal!) Consider your dog’s breed, skin, and coat type to make sure you are bathing your best friend the proper amount.

6. TRY A RELAXING OATMEAL BATH
Consider trying out an oatmeal bath instead of your regular bathing routine to keep your pet’s coat shiny, reduce skin itchiness, and provide a soothing bathing experience. Oatmeal is magic for coat health.

7. CHECK FOR UNDERLYING HEALTH ISSUES
If you notice your pet’s coat is suddenly looking dull or any changes in skin condition, it’s a good idea to rule out any underlying health problems, especially if you’re already doing things to keep your pup’s coat healthy. A trip to the vet can help check for things like skin conditions, parasites, tooth issues, and other problems that may be contributing to a lower-quality coat.

Noticing a change in your dog’s coat quality can be concerning, but rest assured that as long as you put in the extra time to groom, bathe and keep up with proper nutrition -- and treat any health issues that may be damaging the healthy, natural shine -- you’ll notice an improvement in no time.
