November 11, 2021

Fleas are a common problem since they’re something your poor pooch can catch easily. A fun-filled romp at the park or even just a potty trip can be enough for your dog to catch one, and one is all it takes! Due to their rapid growth, stopping a flea infestation can be a challenge. Luckily, there are things you can do to prevent fleas, and to stop them from harming your precious pup and get them out of your home.

1. Inspect and groom your dog’s coat regularly
Regularly comb and check your dog’s coat to check for any signs of fleas and ticks, like flea bites and dirt or areas where fur is sparse, and to make sure your sweet friend’s fur is looking its best. Ready Pet Go! Fish Oil and Cheese-Flavored Chews are a tasty treat for your pup, and the chews will also help to recover from any damage to the skin and coat from the pesky fleas, and aid in joint health. Who knows? Your pooch may wind up looking better than ever.

2. Get Some Flea Preventative -- STAT!
Flea prevention is an important part of getting rid of fleas and discouraging infestations. If you discover your dog has fleas, it’s a good idea to consult your veterinarian on the best treatment options for your dog and get recommendations for flea-preventative medicine to keep future infestations at bay. Make sure to read the labels carefully and do not use flea preventative meant for a cat on a dog under any circumstances.

3. Flea Combs
Flea combs can help remove fleas, eggs, and flea dirt from your dog’s coat, and are a great option to use in combination with things such as flea prevention medication.

4. Flea Baths
Bathing your dog with dog flea and tick shampoos can help kill the fleas on your dog and remove them from your dog’s coat. Make sure the shampoo does not contain tea tree oil, which is toxic to dogs and should not be used to prevent fleas.

  
5. Treat All Dogs in the House
If you have multiple canine companions, it’s important to treat them all for fleas, even if only one seems to have fleas. This will help avoid the infestation spreading to the other dogs. Keeping your dog away from other dogs during peak flea season can also help avoid infestation.

6. Treat Your Home, Too!
Wash all dog beds and bedding in your home in hot, soapy water to make sure fleas are disposed of if present there. One age-old trick to rid your house of fleas is to sprinkle Borax onto your carpet and let it sit for a bit before vacuuming.  When you vacuum, make sure you include common fabric areas like sofas and any other large cloth surfaces where your dog might like to hang out and where fleas will make themselves right at home. Immediately dispose of the contents of the vacuum bag or canister outside. If your dog has recently been in the car, it is also recommended that you vacuum the seats. If the infestation is particularly hard to control, consider using a flea and tick “fogger.”

7. Keep Your Yard Mowed and Tidy
Keeping your yard freshly mowed can help prevent fleas from taking up residence there. The CDC also recommends getting rid of leaf litter regularly.

8. Treat Your Yard for Fleas
In addition to keeping your yard tidy, you can also use a spray, pellet, or nontoxic flea treatment in your yard to stop fleas from making your yard their home.

9. Keep Up with Treatment and Cleaning to Prevent More Infestations
Once your pets, environment, and yard are treated, it is important to keep up with flea-preventative maintenance. Treat your dog regularly, keep up with vacuuming your surfaces, maintain your yard, and continue to check your pooch’s coat for signs of trouble.

Getting a flea infestation can be scary, and a bit frustrating, but following these steps and developing a flea prevention routine can help make sure that if fleas do knock at your door, they won’t stay long.
