August 27, 2021
Dog bars have become wildly popular in the last few years and with good reason. Dogs are allowed in more public places in America, much like in Europe, so people are taking their pups to cafes, restaurants, on hikes and runs, to coffee bars, shopping, and now to bars made just for dogs and their humans.


Before you take your first trip to a dog bar, however, it’s important to make sure you and your dog are set up for success to maximize fun and minimize stress!
Know Before You Go
Make sure you do your research. Take a look at the rules for human and dog conduct, which will typically be posted on the bar’s website and on the premises.
Be Attentive 
These places are designed to be places for dogs and their humans to socialize, but keep in mind that even though you might be grabbing a drink, it’s very important to pay attention to your dog. Let your dog get accustomed to their surroundings before you bring them into the bar. Let your dog sniff the perimeter outside and get acquainted with the new place. As other dogs come in, they tend to check each other out so give them space but guide them when needed.

Work Hard, Play Hard
Just like humans, sometimes your pup just needs a chance to kick back and have fun. Leave training at the door and avoid bringing corrective tools like e-collars to the dog bar. It’s important they have fun while they are there and that it not be a place for training.

Know When it’s Time to Cut Off
When you see your dog being submissive and displaying behaviors like running and hiding, it might be a good time to pull your dog out of play because they are probably getting tired. Scuffles at dog bars happen when your dog gets overwhelmed, so introduce your dog to the bar in short intervals with the first time being no longer than 30-45 minutes and once or twice a week. If your pup seems a little stressed from the experience or becomes overly excited from all the new friends and stimulation, treat your dog with a calming Ready Pet Go! Zen Chew. 

Be a Good Wingman
You know your dog, so if you notice that your pup might need an escape, you might want to step in. If your dog doesn’t have the ability to get away to his own space when needed (like a corner or a shade), trouble can arise. Understand that dogs communicate differently than humans and there might be one in the group that tries to step up as the alpha. Keep a watchful eye on how things unfold but let them do their thing. Only intervene in dog scuffles if it looks like things are escalating or if your dog may not be able to resolve the situation on their own.
  
Unleash the Beast
For the most part, dog bars expect their pup patrons to let loose and roam free. There is usually plenty of running space so dog bars don’t usually allow leashes inside. It’s important to keep your dog’s safety in mind, so it’s recommended that you keep your pup on the leash while walking from your car, then unleash once you're safely inside the door or gate.

Shots! Shots! Shots!
Some bars will require you to bring proof of vaccination for your pooch as well as proof that your dog has been spayed or neutered. Many will also ask you to register your dog for a fee so that you don’t have to bring their records when you come in every time.

Most places offer a full drink menu for you and lots of tasty treats for your pup so go prepared to have safe, responsible fun! Check out this video for an inside look at the dog bar and other useful information.
